# Shield Life
In a wake of tragic difficulties people become distraught and indecisive, it often happens that people do not understand what is happening and what they should do.
Shield Life is an android app with the mechanisms to predict, prevent and manage the impact of natural disasters. 

Through Shield Life we want to create an environment that enables people to make ingenious choices against the impending disaster. 

## Features

This app will provide real-time information and prediction about disaster( earthquake, flood and storm) prone areas, this will assit people to take concerned measures to save their life and reduce economic loss.
Depending upon the seviarity of the disaster, the app will suggest measures to reduce loss of life and economic loss.

App would take input from users in the form answers to some self generated questions. This questions would be open ended so that instead of making people think, app would make them act.
The generated list would in hierarchical order, this would make people more organised and help them to be quick.
The list would be generated by using analytical results of various disaster management sources and services. 
Some pre computed list will also be present in the app which is intended for major disaster during which there might not be any internet.

The app would also generate necessary links for contact and would also have functionality of SOS message, along with real time location sharing.
App will be intended to targeted non-technical people.


## Technologies Required
1. React Native(It will be compatible for both android and iOS)
2. Azure

### Predict
The app will take real time data of different natural disasters prone areas from diffrent sorces and will inform the user about the disaster and the intensity of it.

## Manage
The app stores general medical informations of a user prior to any disaster which can be used by whoever(the user itself or the rescue team) need the information after the disaster has came. For example, assuming that a person is stuck in a natural disaster situation, this data will facilitate that person or a first responder to get medical facilities.
